src/main/scala/com/us/dsb/explore/jsonapi/poc1/Notes_Aspects.md, before:


Semi-sorted:

- Feature-level increments:
  - Design, decision, and implementation order:
    - Identify higher-priority features (e.g., features/cases/combinations needed
      to replace (chunks of) current functionality, plus known-wanted new ones.)
      - e.g., all entities of type; paging; current filtering, sorting;
      - Identify risk areas re prototyping, etc.
    - Identify "fancier" features (beyond parity with current support and
      know-required new support).
      - Identify likelihood "fancier" features (need, support, and use).
    - Re fancier features, determine what design/details can be deferred vs. what
      needs to be planned for (e.g., reserve "syntax" for possible future
      features/cases/etc.)
 
  - Likely feature-level increments:
    - (No POST, PATCH, etc.)
    - Relationships and dependent things:  Likely increments:
      - Start with _no_ relationships. (None in current non-graph UI or back end.)
      - Add minimal[*] access to related entities:  Relationship objects, with
       "related" links usable to get related entities as primary data, as full
       resource objects.  (Avoid resource identifier objects, at least without
       corresonding resource objects in "included".)
       [* Minimum such that client doesn't need to map "user" to "users" (type
       name vs. corresponding  segment/parameter "users").]
     - Defer fancier features until/unless needed:
       - compound documents ("include" query parameter and "included" member")
       - multi-hop relationship access (e.g, "/users/123/rel1/rel2")
    - Type metadata:
      - Data types:
        - Start with at physical vs. logical type.
        - Maybe defer multi-level types.
    - Paging:
      - Start with minimum for UI to drive paging:
        - Accept query parameters (probably just offset and limit).
        - Report resource counts.
        - Maybe pass parsed/decoded paging parameters in metadata.  ??? update --not in start
      - Likely defer first/prev/next/last links, etc.
    - Field selection:
      - Start with "fields" only for primary-data type.  (There are no resource
         objects of other entity types unless/until relationships.)  No submember
          syntax.
      - Likely defer submember syntax unless/until needed.
      - Defer multiple types until/unless relationships.
    - ??? FILTERING

- High-level query types:
  - Support like:  all users, user with specific ID (for all entity types)
  - Maybe support traversing relationships (e.g., all domains related via
    users' containingDomain relationship from users)
    - Q:  Confirm:  Different from filtering domain collection via some
      expression detecting relationships from users?
    - ??:  assimilate SQL-mapping aspects as for "include"(?)
    - ??:  assimilate single-/multi-hop aspects
    - 
- Base query syntax in URL path:
  - (Depends on (how many) types of high-level queryies supported.)
  - Candidate:  Initial simple-segments draft:
    -
      - /users                          - all users
      - /users/123                      - user 123
      - /users/123/someRel              - user 123 -> someRel -> related entities
      - /users/123/relationship/someRel - similar but relationships itself
      - /users/123/rel1/rel2...         - (maybe) chained ...
    - (Has some irregularities/limitations.)
  - Candidate:  Segments like "&lt;step type>=&lt;step param>":
    - e.g.:
      - /users                             - all users
      - /users/id=123                      - user 123
      - /users/id=123/related=someRel      - user 123  -> someRel -> related entities
      - /users/related=someRel             - all users -> someRel -> related entities
      - /users/id=123/relationship=someRel - similar but relationships itself
      - ...
    - Explicit syntax allows easier ~co-existence of different cases
      (note /users/rel=someRel and /users/id=123).
    - Maybe use step type on first segment (e.g., "/collType=user" for consistency.
    - Specifics are TBD.
  - Other candidates are possible.
  - Incrementality:
    - Maybe start with just "/users" and "/users/123".
      - Because no relationships to start with.     
      - Or something like "/collections/users/..." to reserve syntax for
        relationships
    -  Even if we start with /users/123, we could move to
      /users/byId=123 and/users/other=other by treating unrecognized-prefix
      segment  as ID.
  - See more in
    https://rationemllc.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/CA/pages/3123085352/URL+Paths+request+cases+path+forms+related+aspects)

  
  
- Response metadata (returnd in API responses):
  - Type metadata:
    - Entity-type metadata:
      - List/describe fields (attributes and relationship).
        - So UI knows what is can page to "fields" query parameter.
      - (Reserve "syntax" for union types re multi-entity-type relationships.)
    - Datatype metadata:
      - At least phystical and logical types (e.g., "string" and "entityName").
      - Maybe chain of subtyping, like "string" -> "entityNane" -> "userName".
        - (UI uses most-specific one it knows.  E.g., map types to HTML element
          classes; whichever classes CSS covers affect rendering.)
      - "Obvious" types:  string, int/long, float/double, boolean, etc.
      - Enumeration types:
        - List enumerators, UI can help user select values for filter expressions.
        - Q:  Ordered by enumerator name or by order given somewhere?  (See
          pseudo-submembers note.)
      - Timestamps:
        - Maybe JSON object carrying both milliseconds offset and timestampk
          string as currently.
          - Maybe simply ~hard-coded (defined) that way.
          - Maybe instance of class of types for JSON object structures? (Can
            probably allow for adding that later.)
          - (See pseudo-submember note.)
      - Possibly use submember syntax to refer to (psuedo-)members to request
        ~variations:
        - e.g., in "fields": "created.epochMillis" vs. "created.stringForm" (vs.
          just "created" to get JSON object with both)
        - e.g., in "sort": "enumAttr.logicalOrder" vs. "enumAttr.stringOrder"
          (vs. just "enumAttr" to use enumeration type's default order)


  - Instance metadata:
    - Entity counts:
      - Query total (without paging; after filtering).
        - (For, e.g., showing number of pages.)
      - Entity/relationship list total (before filtering).
        - (As we currently show.)

  - Response metadata's locations:
   - Some in top-level "meta" member
   - Maybe some in deeper "meta" members.  (Anything likely?)


- "Model" metadata:
  - (The model-specific metadata defining our logical entities and mappings
    to the database. "driver metadata"?  "control ..."?  "master ..."?
    "mapping ..."?)
  - Contains metadata selected from to make response metadata (e.g., response's
    specfic entity type(s)), e.g., entity types, data types.
  - Contains mappings to/from database, etc.:
    - an entity type's corresponding table (or table expression/etc.).
    - an attribute's corresponding column (or other expression/etc.).
    - a relationship's corresponding query components (joined tables,
      joining columns, maybe other SQL fragments).
    - maybe filter-expression metadata (beyond columns, types, etc.)
- 
- Relationships:
  - Note:  No initial support; limited next-phase support; maybe never much 
    support.
  - TBD:  Query path syntax, filtering aspects.
  - Mapping from logical relationships to database representation:
    - Represented in model metadata (e.g., SQL fragments, code fragments)
    - Expected database representations:
      - Simple:  Foreign key in relationship source table to primary key in
        target table.
      - Association table:  Association table with foreign keys to source
        and target tables.
      - Other?  (Maybe something complex behind the scenes, like table
        expression instead of direct table reference?)
    - Minimum level for access to related objects, without client's needing to
      know "user"-to-"users" correspondence:  Support relationship objects
      having "related" links usable to get related entities as primary data.
  - Multi-entity-type relationships (e.g., groups members (e.g., users,
    computers, other groups, if presented as one relationship):
    - Different entity types are handled fine in "type" members of different
      resource objects.
    - Need some kind of union entity type (e.g., "user or computer or group").
    - How would query map to SQL and return resource objects of different types?
      - Multiple single-join queries?
      - One query using multiple joins getting different tables' data into
        separate groups of columns, UNIONED, with each row mapped to entity type
        per which column group filled in?
      - Multiple joins?
    - Probably just reserve "syntax" to represent union types (i.e., metadata
      structure ~declaring entity type names indicates whether regular entity
      type (e.g., listing attributes) or other (for union entity type listing
       member entity type names)).

- Query parameter aspects:
  - Paging:
    - assimilate:  threshold for paging by default?
    - assimilate:  any hard limits on page size/limit?
    - assimilate:  any metadata reporting default/hard limits?
    - (Not for single-entity queries.)
    - For:  primary data.
    -  Q: What about "included" and relationship collections?  (Probably 
       deferred/dropped anyway.)
    - Accept which forms: 1. offset and limit, 2. page size and number, or
      3. either (or 4. somethine else)?
      - if page size and number/offset, client can't get arbitrary range (e.g.,
        page size 10, want 8 items in range 17 to 24)
      - if offset and limit, might complicate generating first/prev/next/last
        links, especially if client sends offset that is not multiple of limit
        or changes limit
        - maybe just ignore irregularities (Prev then Next isn't always the
          "identity" traversal)
    - Provide first/prev/next/last links:
      - Only when paged?  (That's a way to tell UI whether paged, if needed.)
      - Re spec's "When available":
        - Links "first" and "last" probably always available. (Can to go to
          first/last even if already there.)
        - Is availability of "prev" and "next" clear?
    
    - TBD:  support UI's display of paging state and available actions
      - (e.g., state like current page number and/or offsets, and actions like
        "page 1", "page 2", "page 3" links)
      - probably have entity count in metadata (top-level only? relationships'
        too?)
      - probably have current page/offset/etc. numbers in metadata

  - Field selection:
    - Basic/regular (as specified by JSON:API):
      - Select by simple field names.
      - Select specific attributes and/or relationhips.
      - Have default attributes (and/or relationships):
        - Probably API simply defaults to all attributes (and no
          relationships)--UI can have its own defaults.
        - But what about having different defaults for different predefined
          filterings?  All on UI side?
      - (Per entity type.  Affects all resource objects, regardliness of
        where (main primary data, primary data's related ovbjects, "included's
        objects).)
    - Possibly, allow pseudo-submember references:
      - To select members of values that are JSON objects (e.g., if timestamps
        carry both milliseconds numbrer and string).


  - Sorting:
    - (Primary data only.  Not order in "included" or in relationship objects.)
    - Support basic sorting (by attributes only, one or multiple,
      ascending/descending; most datatype ordering obvious--enumerations by
      value string or some listing order?).
    - Presumably don't support sorting by related entities (e.g.,
      ...?sort=someRel/someAttr), at least not for a while.

  - Filtering:
    - *TBD*
    - see https://rationemllc.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/CA/pages/3116040208/Proposed+Filtering)
    - UI interaction:
      - How soon will UI support editing filter conditions?
      - Will it even need to parse/interpret "filter" query parameter values?
        (It will only construct such expression values (from whatever its
        editor's representation is) and won't need to decode them, right?)

  - Included data:
    - (Depends on supporting relationships.)
    - TBD:  Supported?  How much?
      - From just one relationships or multiple?
        - (Just one seems arbitrary limitation from usage side, but possibly
          simpler to implement.)
      - One-hop or multiple-hop?
      - (Any other levels/features?)
      - How do multiple hops map to SQL queries?
    - No duplicate resource objects, even if entity is multiply referenced.


- "Implementation architecture" aspects:

  - Error reporting:
    - internal general handling implementation
    - JSON:API-specific aspects (e.g., "errors" member and content specified 400
      errors)n
    - (Hooking into HTTP service framework.)
    
  - HTTP server connection:
    - "Connecting" input path and query (and prefix for regenerating URLs):
      - Don't _manually_ create _multiple_ HTTP-framework "routes" for available
        paths:
        - Maybe create one high-level route, get path tail, use metadata to
          interpret path tail segments.
        - Maybe, use metadata to create multiple routes, each hooked to call
          passing static and dynamic values (e.g., entity type vs. entity ID).
          - (Probably only if framework can do something useful when given
            individual routes/paths (showing available paths somewhere? better
            logging?))
      - Query parameters:
        - (What basic parsing support does/will framework provide?)
    - "Connecting" errors:

  - Database ~connection:
    - Much goes through metadata (e.g., table and column names, specific SQL
      fragments).  (See model metadata.)
    - Layer adding non--model-visible things like customer account ID.
    - What else?

  
  - Chain(s) of dependencies between things:
    - (Only minor architecture/internal.)
    - (Dependencies between things (e.g., JSON subtrees) that seem somewhat
      independent or at least "non-adjacent".)
    - Chain to type metadata:  to datatypes, from entity types derived from
      query--primary data's type or types, included data's type(s), maybe related
      data's type(s) in relationships (which depends on "fields").
    - Chain to included data:  to included resource objects, from resource ID
      objects in primary data (including relationships) and from other included
      objects.  Depends on "included" and "fields".
    - Note:  Simple without relationships.

Commit message:

JSON:API modeling:  direct-JSON POC:  Edited Notes_Aspects.md.

src/main/scala/com/us/dsb/explore/jsonapi/poc1/Notes_Aspects.md, after:

To Be Assimilated:
- continue support of UI-specific aspects such as field/column order
  - (see big comment in CrudeClient.scala)
  - address issue of _possibly_ different orders for different filterings (like
    various (backend-provided) <something>-users views in current system)
    - also different default column visibilty
    - does that all move to UI? (UI knows set of tuples of filtering, default
      columns, default column order, maybe also default sorting)?
    

Semi-sorted:

- Feature-level increments:
  - Design, decision, and implementation order:
    - Identify higher-priority features (e.g., features/cases/combinations needed
      to replace (chunks of) current functionality, plus known-wanted new ones.)
      - e.g., all entities of type; paging; current filtering, sorting;
      - Identify risk areas re prototyping, etc.
    - Identify "fancier" features (beyond parity with current support and
      know-required new support).
      - Identify likelihood "fancier" features (need, support, and use).
    - Re fancier features, determine what design/details can be deferred vs. what
      needs to be planned for (e.g., reserve "syntax" for possible future
      features/cases/etc.)
 
  - Likely feature-level increments:
    - (No POST, PATCH, etc.)
    - Relationships and dependent things:  Likely increments:
      - Start with _no_ relationships. (None in current non-graph UI or back end.)
      - Add minimal[*] access to related entities:  Relationship objects, with
       "related" links usable to get related entities as primary data, as full
       resource objects.  (Avoid resource identifier objects, at least without
       corresonding resource objects in "included".)
       [* Minimum such that client doesn't need to map "user" to "users" (type
       name vs. corresponding  segment/parameter "users").]
     - Defer fancier features until/unless needed:
       - compound documents ("include" query parameter and "included" member")
       - multi-hop relationship access (e.g, "/users/123/rel1/rel2")
    - Type metadata:
      - Data types:
        - Start with at physical vs. logical type.
        - Maybe defer multi-level types.
    - Paging:
      - Start with minimum for UI to drive paging:
        - Accept query parameters (probably just offset and limit).
        - Report resource counts.
        - Maybe pass parsed/decoded paging parameters in metadata.  ??? update --not in start
      - Likely defer first/prev/next/last links, etc.
    - Field selection:
      - Start with "fields" only for primary-data type.  (There are no resource
         objects of other entity types unless/until relationships.)  No submember
          syntax.
      - Likely defer submember syntax unless/until needed.
      - Defer multiple types until/unless relationships.
    - ??? FILTERING

- High-level query types:
  - Support like:  all users, user with specific ID (for all entity types)
  - Maybe support traversing relationships (e.g., all domains related via
    users' containingDomain relationship from users)
    - Q:  Confirm:  Different from filtering domain collection via some
      expression detecting relationships from users?
    - ??:  assimilate SQL-mapping aspects as for "include"(?)
    - ??:  assimilate single-/multi-hop aspects
    - 
- Base query syntax in URL path:
  - (Depends on (how many) types of high-level queryies supported.)
  - Candidate:  Initial simple-segments draft:
    - .
      - /users                          - all users
      - /users/123                      - user 123
      - /users/123/someRel              - user 123 -> someRel -> related entities
      - /users/123/relationship/someRel - similar but relationships itself
      - /users/123/rel1/rel2...         - (maybe) chained ...
    - (Has some irregularities/limitations.)
  - Candidate:  Segments like "&lt;step type>=&lt;step param>":
    - e.g.:
      - /users                             - all users
      - /users/id=123                      - user 123
      - /users/id=123/related=someRel      - user 123  -> someRel -> related entities
      - /users/related=someRel             - all users -> someRel -> related entities
      - /users/id=123/relationship=someRel - similar but relationships itself
      - ...
    - Explicit syntax allows easier ~co-existence of different cases
      (note /users/rel=someRel and /users/id=123).
    - Maybe use step type on first segment (e.g., "/collType=user" for consistency.
    - Specifics are TBD.
  - Other candidates are possible.
  - Incrementality:
    - Maybe start with just "/users" and "/users/123".
      - Because no relationships to start with.     
      - Or something like "/collections/users/..." to reserve syntax for
        relationships
    -  Even if we start with /users/123, we could move to
      /users/byId=123 and/users/other=other by treating unrecognized-prefix
      segment  as ID.
  - See more in
    https://rationemllc.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/CA/pages/3123085352/URL+Paths+request+cases+path+forms+related+aspects)
  
- Response metadata (returned in API responses):
  - Type metadata:
    - Entity-type metadata:
      - List/describe fields (attributes and relationship).
        - So UI knows what is can page to "fields" query parameter.
      - (Reserve "syntax" for union types re multi-entity-type relationships.)
    - Datatype metadata:
      - At least phystical and logical types (e.g., "string" and "entityName").
      - Maybe chain of subtyping, like "string" -> "entityNane" -> "userName".
        - (UI uses most-specific one it knows.  E.g., map types to HTML element
          classes; whichever classes CSS covers affect rendering.)
      - "Obvious" types:  string, int/long, float/double, boolean, etc.
      - Enumeration types:
        - List enumerators, UI can help user select values for filter expressions.
        - Q:  Ordered by enumerator name or by order given somewhere?  (See
          pseudo-submembers note.)
      - Timestamps:
        - Maybe JSON object carrying both milliseconds offset and timestampk
          string as currently.
          - Maybe simply ~hard-coded (defined) that way.
          - Maybe instance of class of types for JSON object structures? (Can
            probably allow for adding that later.)
          - (See pseudo-submember note.)
      - Possibly use submember syntax to refer to (psuedo-)members to request
        ~variations:
        - e.g., in "fields": "created.epochMillis" vs. "created.stringForm" (vs.
          just "created" to get JSON object with both)
        - e.g., in "sort": "enumAttr.logicalOrder" vs. "enumAttr.stringOrder"
          (vs. just "enumAttr" to use enumeration type's default order)


  - Instance metadata:
    - Entity counts:
      - Query total (without paging; after filtering).
        - (For, e.g., showing number of pages.)
      - Entity/relationship list total (before filtering).
        - (As we currently show.)

  - Response metadata's locations:
   - Some in top-level "meta" member
   - Maybe some in deeper "meta" members.  (Anything likely?)


- "Model" metadata:
  - (The model-specific metadata defining our logical entities and mappings
    to the database. "driver metadata"?  "control ..."?  "master ..."?
    "mapping ..."?)
  - Contains metadata selected from to make response metadata (e.g., response's
    specfic entity type(s)), e.g., entity types, data types.
  - Contains mappings to/from database, etc.:
    - an entity type's corresponding table (or table expression/etc.).
    - an attribute's corresponding column (or other expression/etc.).
    - a relationship's corresponding query components (joined tables,
      joining columns, maybe other SQL fragments).
    - maybe filter-expression metadata (beyond columns, types, etc.)

- Relationships:
  - Note:  No initial support; limited next-phase support; maybe never much 
    support.
  - TBD:  Query path syntax, filtering aspects.
  - Mapping from logical relationships to database representation:
    - Represented in model metadata (e.g., SQL fragments, code fragments)
    - Expected database representations:
      - Simple:  Foreign key in relationship source table to primary key in
        target table.
      - Association table:  Association table with foreign keys to source
        and target tables.
      - Other?  (Maybe something complex behind the scenes, like table
        expression instead of direct table reference?)
    - Minimum level for access to related objects, without client's needing to
      know "user"-to-"users" correspondence:  Support relationship objects
      having "related" links usable to get related entities as primary data.
  - Multi-entity-type relationships (e.g., groups members (e.g., users,
    computers, other groups, if presented as one relationship):
    - Different entity types are handled fine in "type" members of different
      resource objects.
    - Need some kind of union entity type (e.g., "user or computer or group").
    - How would query map to SQL and return resource objects of different types?
      - Multiple single-join queries?
      - One query using multiple joins getting different tables' data into
        separate groups of columns, UNIONED, with each row mapped to entity type
        per which column group filled in?
      - Multiple joins?
    - Probably just reserve "syntax" to represent union types (i.e., metadata
      structure ~declaring entity type names indicates whether regular entity
      type (e.g., listing attributes) or other (for union entity type listing
       member entity type names)).

- Query parameter aspects:
  - Paging:
    - assimilate:  threshold for paging by default?
    - assimilate:  any hard limits on page size/limit?
    - assimilate:  any metadata reporting default/hard limits?
    - (Not for single-entity queries.)
    - For:  primary data.
    -  Q: What about "included" and relationship collections?  (Probably 
       deferred/dropped anyway.)
    - Accept which forms: 1. offset and limit, 2. page size and number, or
      3. either (or 4. somethine else)?
      - if page size and number/offset, client can't get arbitrary range (e.g.,
        page size 10, want 8 items in range 17 to 24)
      - if offset and limit, might complicate generating first/prev/next/last
        links, especially if client sends offset that is not multiple of limit
        or changes limit
        - maybe just ignore irregularities (Prev then Next isn't always the
          "identity" traversal)
    - Provide first/prev/next/last links:
      - Only when paged?  (That's a way to tell UI whether paged, if needed.)
      - Re spec's "When available":
        - Links "first" and "last" probably always available. (Can to go to
          first/last even if already there.)
        - Is availability of "prev" and "next" clear?
    
    - TBD:  support UI's display of paging state and available actions
      - (e.g., state like current page number and/or offsets, and actions like
        "page 1", "page 2", "page 3" links)
      - probably have entity count in metadata (top-level only? relationships'
        too?)
      - probably have current page/offset/etc. numbers in metadata

  - Field selection:
    - Basic/regular (as specified by JSON:API):
      - Select by simple field names.
      - Select specific attributes and/or relationhips.
      - Have default attributes (and/or relationships):
        - Probably API simply defaults to all attributes (and no
          relationships)--UI can have its own defaults.
        - But what about having different defaults for different predefined
          filterings?  All on UI side?
      - (Per entity type.  Affects all resource objects, regardliness of
        where (main primary data, primary data's related ovbjects, "included's
        objects).)
    - Possibly, allow pseudo-submember references:
      - To select members of values that are JSON objects (e.g., if timestamps
        carry both milliseconds numbrer and string).

  - Sorting:
    - (Primary data only.  Not order in "included" or in relationship objects.)
    - Support basic sorting (by attributes only, one or multiple,
      ascending/descending; most datatype ordering obvious--enumerations by
      value string or some listing order?).
    - Presumably don't support sorting by related entities (e.g.,
      ...?sort=someRel/someAttr), at least not for a while.

  - Filtering:
    - *TBD*
    - see https://rationemllc.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/CA/pages/3116040208/Proposed+Filtering)
    - UI interaction:
      - How soon will UI support editing filter conditions?
      - Will it even need to parse/interpret "filter" query parameter values?
        (It will only construct such expression values (from whatever its
        editor's representation is) and won't need to decode them, right?)

  - Included data:
    - (Depends on supporting relationships.)
    - TBD:  Supported?  How much?
      - From just one relationships or multiple?
        - (Just one seems arbitrary limitation from usage side, but possibly
          simpler to implement.)
      - One-hop or multiple-hop?
      - (Any other levels/features?)
      - How do multiple hops map to SQL queries?
    - No duplicate resource objects, even if entity is multiply referenced.


- "Implementation architecture" aspects:

  - Error reporting:
    - internal general handling implementation
    - JSON:API-specific aspects (e.g., "errors" member and content specified 400
      errors)n
    - (Hooking into HTTP service framework.)
    
  - HTTP server connection:
    - "Connecting" input path and query (and prefix for regenerating URLs):
      - Don't _manually_ create _multiple_ HTTP-framework "routes" for available
        paths:
        - Maybe create one high-level route, get path tail, use metadata to
          interpret path tail segments.
        - Maybe, use metadata to create multiple routes, each hooked to call
          passing static and dynamic values (e.g., entity type vs. entity ID).
          - (Probably only if framework can do something useful when given
            individual routes/paths (showing available paths somewhere? better
            logging?))
      - Query parameters:
        - (What basic parsing support does/will framework provide?)
    - "Connecting" errors:

  - Database ~connection:
    - Much goes through metadata (e.g., table and column names, specific SQL
      fragments).  (See model metadata.)
    - Layer adding non--model-visible things like customer account ID.
    - What else?

  
  - Chain(s) of dependencies between things:
    - (Only minor architecture/internal.)
    - (Dependencies between things (e.g., JSON subtrees) that seem somewhat
      independent or at least "non-adjacent".)
    - Chain to type metadata:  to datatypes, from entity types derived from
      query--primary data's type or types, included data's type(s), maybe related
      data's type(s) in relationships (which depends on "fields").
    - Chain to included data:  to included resource objects, from resource ID
      objects in primary data (including relationships) and from other included
      objects.  Depends on "included" and "fields".
    - Note:  Simple without relationships.
